January 13, 2008
First Sunday after Epiphany, Year A
Isaiah 42:1-9, Psalm 29, Acts 10:34-43, Matthew 3:13-17

NEW THINGS

“New things I now declare,” says the Lord. God is always about doing new things in our lives, in the world, doing whatever it takes to get our attention, to call us into God’s presence, God’s love. Perhaps, at the beginning of a new calendar year, we are ready for new things. We have just said good by to the exhausted Father Time of 2007 and welcomed in the fresh little baby New Year, full of promise, of potential. Maybe we have even made a few New Year’s resolutions regarding our spiritual life, our relationship with the Lord. But are our eyes open to see the new things God is doing here and now? Are we prepared to receive the new things that God has in store for us?

God’s new things have a way of turning life upside down, changing our perceptions of what is real and true. John and Jesus, that day at the Jordan, were not expecting the heavens to be opened right before their eyes, or the Spirit of God to descend like a dove and alight on Jesus, or a voice from heaven to confirm Jesus as God’s Beloved Son. That was a new thing! They were each profoundly affected by the experience.

Peter just prior to his exhortation in today’s lesson, had been perplexed by his dream (Acts 10:9-23) telling him to eat food the Jews considered unclean, that ”What God has made clean, do not call profane.” His eyes were opened to see the new things God was doing in the fledgling church when the servants of the Gentile centurion arrived at his door and when he heard Cornelius’ story.(Acts 10:24-32) His perception that Christ Jesus came only for the Jews was washed away by the experience. Nothing was ever the same again.

Where do you see the hand of God at work doing new things in the world today? What new things is God calling forth in your life at this time? Regardless of the upheaval that is sure to follow, trust in the steadfast love and mercy of God to be with you as the new things come to fruition in your life.
