January 6, 2008
The Epiphany, Year A
Isaiah 60:1-6, Psalm 72:1-7, 10-14, Ephesians 3:1-12, Matthew 2:1-12

GIFTS

Gifts are given from generous hearts, hearts overflowing with love and desire to share that love with others. That describes God’s giving to us. “From his fullness we have all received grace upon grace.” (Jn.1:16) We know that “God so loved the world that he gave his…Son” (Jn.3:16) to incarnate his love in the world. The seven-fold gifts of the Spirit that we receive by grace: wisdom and understanding, counsel and might, knowledge and the fear of the Lord (and according to the Septuagint, piety) (Is.11:2) come from the heart of God. In fact, scripture tells us that “every good and perfect gift comes from above, from the Father of lights.” (James 1:17) All of life, all of creation testifies that we have a gift-giving God.

Gifts, however, may also be given by grateful hearts in thanksgiving for what has been received. Once we have recognized all the many and varied gifts that come to us out of God’s love, we become filled with an “attitude of gratitude.” We “want to pass it on,” as the song says. That’s what Paul is living out when he tells us that, having received the gift of God, the revelation of the mystery of Christ, he, out of the fullness of his joy, chose to become the servant of God, so that he might make known the eternal purpose of God to the world. When the devout and righteous Simeon and the prophetess, Anna, , who were in the temple in Jerusalem at Jesus’ formal presentation to the Lord, had their epiphany and realized the gift of salvation appearing right before their eyes, they offered God “a sacrifice of praise and thanksgiving.” The wise men from the East, upon determining the implication of the star, brought God’s Son gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh, but what can folks like us do?

“What can I give him, poor as I am?
If I were a shepherd, I would bring a lamb;
if I were a wise man, I would do my part;
Yet what I can I give him, give him my heart.”
Hymnal 1982, #112, v.4

That’s what Christ Jesus wants from each of us today, an open, receptive heart, a generous heart full of God’s love and compassion spilling out into the world.
