May 11, 2008
The Day of Pentecost, Year A
Acts 2:1-21, Psalm 104:25-35, 37b, II Corinthians 12:3b-13, John 20:19-23

BEWILDERED?

Like those in the crowd in Jerusalem that first Christian Pentecost when “each one heard [the disciples] speaking in the native language of each,” we are often astonished and bewildered when we see the Spirit of God moving over the face of the earth. When we recognize the hand of God at work in the world, in our own lives, in the lives of others, like the crowd, we ask, “What does this mean?” How can unlettered Galileans speak in all those foreign languages? Why has God chosen to use that person, or that group of people, for that purpose? It doesn’t make senses to us; we are bewildered.

When we are bewildered, when we don’t know what to do or how to respond, we often feel anxious or afraid. Jesus knows that and comes to us, as John tells us that he did for his disciples on Easter evening, and brings peace—God’s perfect peace—to our distress. When we experience that peace pouring over us, when we feel it welling up from deep within, it is the Holy Spirit announcing God’s presence. When we experience comfort in our grief, healing in our illness, strength and courage in our trials, inspiration in carrying out our duties, calls to compassion, service and love, it is the Holy Spirit announcing God’s presence here and now. The Spirit dwells within sanctifying us, transforming us into the imago dei God created us to be.

We don’t know how God works, but we need not be bewildered in our ignorance. Based on our own personal experience and that of others we know, and on the testimony of Christian witness through the ages, we know we can trust that God provides the manifestation of the Spirit when and where we need it for the common good. Experience it for yourself. Take time right now to center down, breathing slowly and deeply. Open your heart, allow the breath of God to fill you, and “Receive the Holy Spirit.” And then go forth rejoicing in the power of the Spirit.
