February 10, 2008
First Sunday in Lent, Year A
Genesis 2:15-17; 3:1-7, Psalm 32, Romans 5:12-19, Matthew 4:1-11

A HOLY LENT

In the Ash Wednesday liturgy, the Church calls us “to the observance of a holy Lent, by self-examination and repentance; by prayer, fasting and self-denial; and by reading and meditating on God’s holy Word.” Forty days of disciplined living are intended to focus our attention on our need to turn from our wicked ways and live in God’s holy presence.

The collect and lessons for today start us off in the right direction by recognizing the temptations that abound in the world around us, distracting us from a right relationship with the Lord. The epistle of James (4:7-10) suggests a way for dealing with our temptations: “Submit yourselves to God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. Draw near to God and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Lament and mourn and weep….Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you.” Does a Lenten discipline like that have your name on it?

Think about it. How will you choose to observe a holy Lent, to prepare yourself for the passion of Holy Week, for the celebration of Christ’s resurrection on Easter morning? For each of us, it will be different. I came across, in the Lent issue of “The Anglican Digest”, p.14, a spiritual fast that is calling my name this year. I don’t expect it to be an easy discipline to live with, but I offer it to you for your consideration:
“Fast from judging others; feast on Christ dwelling in them.
Fast from fear of illness; feast on the healing power of God.
Fast from words that pollute; feast on speech that purifies.
Fast from discontent; 	feast on gratitude.
Fast from anger; feast on patience.
Fast from pessimism; feast on optimism.
Fast from negatives; feast on alternatives.
Fast from bitterness; feast on forgiveness.
Fast from self-concern; feast on compassion.
Fast from suspicion; feast on truth.
Fast from gossip; feast on purposeful silence.
Fast from problems that overwhelm; 	feast on prayer that sustains.
Fast from worry; feast on faith.”
Anonymous
