April 27, 2008
Sixth Sunday of Easter, Year A
Acts 17:22-31, Psalm 66:7-18, I Peter 3:13-22, John 14:15-21

REVELATION

Christ Jesus promised to reveal himself to those who love him, to you and me. His revelation comes to us through the Holy Spirit, the Advocate that he speaks of in the gospel, the Spirit of truth, the Sanctifier, the Comforter, the Paraclete who walks along side us, ruach—the breath of God, the One who inspires us day by day. God meets us where we are, as we are, revealing himself to us in ways that we can receive. Not all of us receive visions like John on Patmos. Not all of us are struck blind like Paul on the road to Damascus. Not all of us are captured by a burning bush that is not consumed. But some are, and we may be if that is what we need to come to know the living Lord.

More frequently, we find Christ touching our hearts in more subtle ways. For example, when we read our daily scripture passages, a word or phrase may jump off the page, speaking to us in a new and different way, a way that is particularly relevant to the current circumstances in our lives. Or we’re having a rough time and a friend calls at just the right time with just what we need to hear. On the other side of that coin, maybe, out of the blue, we feel a nudge to call a friend or write a note, or say a prayer, and when we do, we find it was inspired. Perhaps we experience a call to a new ministry that we had not ever expected; sometimes it comes from within; sometimes an unexpected person points it out. It may be that as we’re reading a novel or watching a movie, our eyes are opened to see the Christ figure or the ears of our hearts recognize the voice of God in the dialog. For me, most often it is in synchronicity, the meaningful coincidence of unrelated things, that I experience the subtle revelation of Christ’s presence. However it comes, the revelation is personal, for each of us alone. Such revelations strengthen our relationship with the Lord, deepen our love for God.

Take a moment to consider the ways Christ reveals himself to you, the ways you have come to recognize the hand of God at work in your life. And give thanks that “indeed he is not far from each one of us,” as Paul told the Athenians.
