October 12, 2008
Proper 23, Year A
Exodus 32:1-14, Psalm 106:1-6, 19-23, Philippians 4:1-9, Matthew 22:1-14

THE PEACE OF GOD

When I was in college, the pastor of my hometown church conducted a revival in a nearby town. I, of course, took some friends and went to see him. His sermon that night was based on today’s epistle lesson and focused on God’s peace that passes all understanding. By the time of the altar call, I knew I wanted that peace, that I was ready for that peace in my life. Going forward, with tears streaming down my face, I naively thought that peace would be a once-and-done kind of thing. I guess I expected it to be one of those fairy tale, happily–ever-after kind of experiences. Needless to say, my expectations were way off base.

I did receive God’s peace that night as my pastor prayed with me, and it has sustained me through all the years since. It has not, however, been peace without conflict, peace without pain, peace without struggle, peace without anxiety and fear, peace without failure, peace without rejection, peace without heartache, peace without loss, peace without betrayal, all the things I thought it would be all those long years ago. Rather, it has been peace in the midst of all that when I have been open to receive it. Openness, receptivity is the key.

God’s peace does indeed surpass all understanding. It’s not a head exercise. There’s no logic to it. We don’t know how or why or when it may come, but we know in our hearts that it does. It comes in the trials and tribulations that life brings our way. We experience it upholding us, enfolding us, strengthening us, day by day. We recognize that our hearts and minds are changed as we accept God’s peace into our being. Thank goodness, God’s nurturing peace also comes into the quiet, contemplative times of our lives when we surrender ourselves to God’s presence, ready to receive the blessings God has prepared for us.

“And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.”
