November 23, 2008
Proper 29, Year A
Ezekiel 34:11-16, 20-24, Psalm 100, Ephesians 1:15-23, Matthew 25:31-46

JUSTICE/MERCY

In Trinity’s Adult Education class, we are studying and discussing a book entitled Windows to Heaven: Introducing Icons to Protestants and Catholics by Zelensky and Gilbert. On the cover is a picture of an icon of Christ known as the Sinai Pantocrator (Lord of All) because, for over 1500 years, it has been preserved at the Monastery of St. Catherine at the foot of Mt. Sinai. One distinctive aspect of this icon is that if we look at one side of the face only, the eye of Christ is gazing at us with mercy. Looking only at the other side, we find the eye of Christ convicting us with justice. That icon illustrates for me the message of our lessons this week, the balance of God’s justice and mercy.

In the lesson from the prophet Ezekiel, we see first the God of mercy seeking his people wherever they may be, rescuing them from their distress, bringing them into his fold to feed them. “I myself…says the Lord God…will seek the lost, and I will bring back the strayed, and I will bind up the injured, and I will strengthen the weak.” We recognize that image as the Good Shepherd in John’s gospel. Here in the Hebrew scriptures, God, however, points out that we must suffer the consequences of our choices in life. If we have grown strong at the expense of others, if we have “pushed with flank and shoulder, and butted at the weak animals with [our] horns,” God will “feed [us] with justice.” Jesus’ parable expands our view of those facing the justice eye of God to include, not only those who have negatively impacted those around them, but also those who have ignored the needs of those around them. The sins of omission, as well as the sins of commission, call us into judgment.

The good news is that God’s mercy and justice are always balanced and bound up in God’s steadfast love. “Since all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,” (Rms.3:23) it would be well for us to pray to have “the eyes of [our] heart enlightened” by compassion so that we are inspired to be merciful (for the merciful will receive mercy—Mt.5:7). It is not one eye that looks at us as we hang in the balance. It is both, looking at us from the heart of Love, the heart of Love that hangs on the cross, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world.
