June 1, 2008
Proper 4, Year A
Genesis 6:9-27; 7:24; 8:14-19, Psalm 46, Romans 1:16-17; 3:22b-31, Matthew 7:21-29

OBEDIENCE, BURDEN OR BLESSING

Noah is a great example of obedience, of one who hears God’s word and acts on it. It can’t have been easy for him to build an ark and collect his zoo when all around him “the wickedness of human kind was great in the earth, and … every inclination of the thoughts of their hearts was only evil continually.” (Gen.6:5) But Noah persevered and was blessed with new life, new life for him and his family, new life for all creation.

It can’t have been easy for Abraham to leave kin and homeland for a nomadic life in the wilderness, but he heard the word of the Lord and acted on it. From his obedience and faithfulness come the three great religions of the Book (Jewish, Christian, Muslim) showing the way to new life in relationship to God. It can’t have been easy for the prophets to live out their calls either, but each and all in his own day heard God’s word and acted on it, calling the people to return from their sinful ways and return to the way of the Lord, promising new life for those with ears to hear. It can’t have been easy for the apostle Paul to reach out to the pagan Gentiles with the good news of God’s grace, but as a result of his obedience, because he heard Christ’s word and acted on it, we are here today. Paul’s great Christological hymn (Phil.2:6-11) points to Christ Jesus as our ultimate example of obedience: “he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death—even death on a cross,” and with it comes the promise of resurrection for all creation.

Over and over in scripture, we have examples of those who ignored the word of the Lord, whose ears where closed, whose hearts were hard, who chose to build their houses on sand, as well as those who were obedient, who, on hearing, responded, “Yes,” like Isaiah’s: “Here I am. Send me,” like Mary’s fiat: “Let it be with me according to your word,” who chose to build their houses on the rock of God’s word. The word continues to come to you and me today. It is up to each of us to choose where we will build our house.

“Blessed are those who hear the word of God and obey it.” (Lk.11:28)
