January 27, 2008
Third Sunday after Epiphany, Year A
Isaiah 9:1-4, Psalm 27:1, 5-13, I Corinthians 1:10-18, Matthew 4:12-23

CHRISTIAN UNITY

Christians around the world have been observing the week devoted to praying for Christian unity. Annually, during the octave from January 18, the day we celebrate the confession of St. Peter, to January 25, the day we celebrate the conversion of St. Paul, we are called to pray, along with Jesus, that we all may be one as he and the Father are one (Jn.17:11), that we be one body, the body of Christ Jesus in the world today proclaiming the good news of salvation to all people.

From the earliest days of the Church, such unity has proved to be elusive. In today’s epistle, we find Paul, just a few years after Christ Jesus’ death and resurrection, already urging the quarreling Corinthians “To be in agreement and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be united in the same mind [the mind of Christ] and the same purpose [the salvation of the world].”

Today, not much has changed. When we look around us, we see divisions tearing us asunder on every side. Internationally, nationally, locally, we suffer from the angst of separation from our brothers and sisters in Christ. The body of Christ, the Church, struggles as the quarrels, the dissensions, continue, leaving little time and energy for the work the gospel calls us to do, to follow Jesus in “teaching…, proclaiming the good news of the kingdom and curing every disease and every sickness among the people.” Therefore, let us here and now join our hearts and voices with Christians everywhere in praying for the unity of the Church:
O God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, our only Savior, the Prince of Peace: Give us grace seriously to lay to heart the great danger we are on by our unhappy divisions; take away all hatred and prejudice, and whatever else may hinder us from godly union and concord; that, as there is but one Body and one Spirit, one hope of our calling, one Lord, one Faith, one Baptism, one God and Father of us all, so may we be all of one heart and of one soul, united in one holy bond of truth and peace, of faith and charity, and may with one mind and one mouth glorify you; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. (BCP, p.818)
