September 20, 2009
Proper 20, Year B
Proverbs 31:10-31, Psalm 1, James 3:13—4:3, 7-8a, Mark 9:30-37

DRAW NEAR TO GOD AND SEE WHAT HAPPENS

“Submit yourselves . . . to God,” we hear in the epistle. Submitting is not a popular concept in our culture. We don’t want to accept second place, much less “last of all,” as Jesus teaches. For most of us, winning is everything; being #1, King of the Mountain, Top Dog is what counts in our competitive society. Giving in, surrendering, voluntarily submitting to anything or anyone is anathema to the rugged individualist way of life we so prize. We don’t like the idea of others telling us what to do, nor when, where, how to do it. We much prefer being independent, proclaiming, along with the song, “I did it my way,” regardless of what “it” is.

I spent a lot of my life trying to do things my way. I was a product of the Great American Culture, independent, pursuing the goal (whatever it might have been at the time), achieving whatever I set out to do. Then, at mid-life, I was brought to my knees. My way wouldn’t cut it any longer. It took my being willing to yield, to surrender to God for me (and my family) to make it through the crisis. That’s when I began to discover the truth of the James’ statement: “Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you.”

Drawing near to God for me began with a daily quiet time of Bible reading and prayer. Over time, it grew to include spiritual reading, a rule of life with the Community of the Holy Spirit, Centering Prayer, journaling, study, and most recently, dreamwork. Other people draw near to God in other ways. What we do is not as important as our intent to be present to God, to be open to receive the grace that God is always offering us out of his self-giving love. As our relationship with God grows deeper and stronger, we begin to experience the fruit of God’s steadfast love and to understand that the gifts we receive are not meant for us alone, but are meant to be shared with others. The chalice of our heart is filled to be poured out in service to others.
