January 25, 2009
Third Sunday after the Epiphany, Year B
Jonah 3:1-5, 10, Psalm 62:6-14, I Corinthians 7:29-31, Mark 1:14-20

“GONE FISHIN’ ”

Through the lens of 2000+ years of church history, we recognize Jesus’ call to Simon Peter and his brother Andrew as a call to evangelize the world, “to proclaim to all people the Good News of his salvation.” But just suppose for a moment that you were there with those Galilean fishermen, casting your net beside them, when Jesus called, “Follow me and I will make you fish for people.” Fish for people? Why in the world would you want to fish for people? You can’t eat them or sell them.—what would you do with them if you caught them? What is it about Jesus that cause your companions, Peter, Andrew, James, and John, to leave their nets right there on the shore and follow him? How can they just walk away from their jobs like that? Where are they going? What are they really going to do?
We know now that they were joining Jesus’ itinerant ministry, “proclaiming the good news of God,” teaching, healing, turning the hearts of the people back to the Lord. Christ Jesus continues to call us, each of us and all of us, to follow him where he leads, to join his fishing expedition. When our ears are open to hear that call and we’re finally ready to sign on, what does that entail? It involves telling our story, being willing to share with others all the ways we perceive God working in our lives. It means reaching out to others with the love of God; as the Cursillo movement puts it: “Make a friend; be a friend; bring a friend to Christ.” It includes feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, welcoming the stranger, visiting the prisoner, caring for the sick, the widowed, the orphan, the aged and infirm. It means bringing light to those in darkness, justice to those who are oppressed, peace to those who have no peace.
All of that sounds pretty daunting, but with God, nothing is impossible. None of us can do all those things, of course, but we can each pick up a piece of the action in the avenues open to us. We all have different gifts that God can use to accomplish his purposes in the world if we are open and alert to the opportunities that come our way. Once we discern the call with our name on it, we can grab our fishing gear that God provides for us and hang the sign on our door:
“Gone Fishin’ “
