April 12, 2009
Easter Day, Year B
Acts 10:34-43, Psalm 118:1-2, 14-24, I Corinthians 15:1-11, John 20:1-18

I HAVE SEEN THE LORD

The whole purpose of Jesus’ incarnation was for the people of the world to see the Lord, to experience the self-revelation of God’s redeeming, life-giving love in a way we could relate to. Christ Jesus, the Light of the World, shines in the darkness of the world with the light of God’s steadfast, merciful love, and the darkness of death did not overcome it. (Jn.1:5) Mary Magdalene, Peter, the couple from Emmaus, Thomas, James, all those first apostles, personally experienced the risen Lord after his resurrection from the dead. They were witnesses; we have their testimony: “I have seen the Lord.” “Death is swallowed up in victory.” (I Cor.15:54, Is.25:8) Thanks be to God! Alleluia!

It is not too late for us today to see the Lord, to experience his presence in our lives, to hear him call our name. Paul’s experience on the Damascus road testifies to Christ Jesus’ continuing presence in the world. That is the testimony of countless saints and mystics through the ages who have seen the Lord in differing and personal ways, ways that enabled each of them to recognize the enduring love of God in the reality of their lives. Thanks be to God! Alleluia!

I have a friend who was sitting in a chair in her living room in front of the open front door one day when something caught her attention outside. She turned to look out the door, and there she saw Christ Jesus standing on her front sidewalk looking at her. She has seen the Lord. I have not been blessed with that type of vision, but my eyes have been opened to see the hand of the Lord lovingly at work in myriad ways in my life, in the lives of others, in the world. I have seen the Lord. Thanks be to God! Alleluia!

Have you seen the risen Lord? If that has not yet been your experience, there’s no time like the present. Open the eyes of your heart here and now; perk up your ears of your heart to hear your name being called; keep alert; stay open and receptive, and you too will soon be able to testify, “I have seen the Lord.” Thanks be to God! Alleluia!
