May 3, 2009
Fourth Sunday of Easter, Year B
Acts 4:5-12, Psalm 23, I John 3:16-24, John 10:11-18

IN TRUTH AND ACTION

“. . . let us love [one another], not in word or speech, but in truth and action.” That’s the spiritual injunction for the vernacular: “Put your money where your mouth is,” or perhaps: “Don’t just talk the talk, bur rather walk the walk.” The Good Shepherd is our role model for loving in truth and action. The Good Shepherd protects the sheep from the predators that come stalking around. The Good Shepherd finds verdant pasture and still water to nurture the sheep. The Good Shepherd diligently searches for and rescues the sheep that wanders off and gets lost. (Mt.18:12, Lk.15:4) As we experience the Good Shepherd loving us in truth and action in our own lives, we come to realize just what it means to love one another as Christ loves us. (Jn.13:34)

In a recent visit with our son and his family in Virginia, we enjoyed interacting with our two young granddaughters (just turned six and eight, going on nine, years old) in a variety of ways. While we were there, we were privileged to observe an example of loving in truth and action. On the Sunday after Easter, parents (and grandparents) were invited to the chapel to observe while the children’s Sunday School classes participated in a “Liturgy of Light,” similar to the Easter Vigil service. During the liturgy, each child took a candle lighted from the Paschal candle and placed it in a row of candle holders in front of the altar. Courtney, our younger granddaughter, is in the youngest class (3-6 years old). The youngest one in that class was a little boy, probably about three years old. Courtney gently watched out for him, helped him, made sure he had what he needed, showed him where to go, what to do in a kind and loving way. Later, when I remarked on her care of the little boy, she noted that she was one of the oldest in the class so it was her responsibility to help the youngest. She was being a good shepherd, loving in truth and action.. For her it was easy and natural.

Would that we could, each and all, find loving in truth and action so easy and natural as we go about our daily lives!
