September 19, 2010
Proper 20, Year C
Jeremiah 8:18—9:1, Psalm 79:1-9, I Timothy 2:1-7, Luke 16:1-3

PRAYERS, CORPORATE AND INDIVIDUAL
In our epistle reading for today, Timothy’s mentor, in describing worship service activities, urges “that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for everyone.” That is the intent of the “Prayers of the People” in our liturgy Sunday by Sunday. But corporate worship service prayer, even including the Great Thanksgiving of the Eucharist, doesn’t alone suffice for deepening our relationship with God. Personal prayer is important for each of us, as well, time spent in conversation with God, sharing, listening, resting in God’s presence.
Folks often use the acronym ACTS to suggest some of the various ways we may approach our prayer time. A stands for Adoration, loving God for who God is, rather than for what God does, being in God’s presence—silent--aware, a form of contemplative prayer offering all that we are into God’s hands. Centering prayer is the form of adoration I rely on most often. C stands for Confession. Formal confession is available with a priest, of course, but we also have the opportunity for personal confession. St. Ignatius recommends a daily examen of conscience to see where we’ve fallen short, missed the mark, followed by offering our daily sins and offenses to God for forgiveness, trusting in God’s grace to heal our brokenness, to transform us into the imago dei God intended us to be. T stands for Thanksgiving, which includes praise, so it may be quite exuberant from time to time. It may involve singing, or dancing, or making music, or maybe even tears, whatever feels right at the time when we let our joy burst forth. It is always easier to give thanks when things are going well, but it is important to “give thanks in all circumstances” (I Thes.5:18)—not necessarily “for” all circumstances, but for God’s presence with us in whatever circumstances come our way. For me, I find that journaling is my most common way of offering God thanks and praise. S stands for Supplication, for ourselves and for others, letting God know what’s going on in our lives and the lives of those around us who need God’s guiding hand, healing touch, wisdom and discernment, comfort and strength, and transforming presence to make it through the day. I keep a list by my prayer chair; some people use pictures to bring prayer needs to mind; some people pray with the newspaper—there’s certainly no lack of needs there.
A full prayer life is broad and varied and encompasses both prayers in community and personal prayers. It doesn’t matter how you pray, what you bring to the conversation. The important thing is to commit time to strengthening your relationship with God through prayer. For more ideas, you might want to check out HYPERLINK "http://www.explorefaith.com" www.explorefaith.com, associated with Church Publishing, Inc.
