December 26, 2010
First Sunday after Christmas, Year A
Isaiah 61:10—62:3, Psalm 147, Galatians 3:23-25, John 1:1-18

LET IT SHINE!

John doesn’t include a birth narrative in his version of the good news, as do Matthew and Luke. Rather, he goes all the away back to the very beginning, to the creating Word of God, to the Source of ALL to describe his experience of God’s sanctifying Love as “the light of all people . . . the true light, which enlightens everyone.” That light is present in you and me here and now, in all God’s children throughout the world, as unlikely, or perhaps impossible, as that may seem.

John tells us that “the light shines in darkness, and the darkness did not overcome it.” The deep darkness of hatred, ignorance, oppression that is rampant in our world has not overcome the Light of the World, and it cannot; it will not. No matter how weakly the light flickers and seems about to founder, God is faithful and keeps gently blowing the breath of the Spirit on the spark to keep it going until we awake to our part of the process. The Light of the World yearns for the oxygen of our attention to keep the eternal flame of God’s Love burning brightly in all the darkness we experience around us, for our answering the call to incarnate God’s light in the world.

We are indeed called to enlighten the world around us, to share our experience of God’s true Light one person at a time as the opportunity presents itself. Those folks languishing in darkness wonder how we recognize God’s presence in our lives. How do we see God’s hand at work in the world? What is it like to know God’s peace that passes all understanding? When have we experienced what we know to be an answer to prayer? What is it like to experience the joy of the Lord? How do we hear God’s voice? How does God get our attention? Those of us who have come to know the Light burning deep within our hearts, who have been enlightened by God’s grace, can pass it on to those who are hungry for the Light.

Remember the children’s song, “This little light of mine, I’m gonna’ let it shine”? That’s how it works, once you’ve experienced the Light of God’s Love in your life, just let it shine, let it shine, let it shine!
