December 18, 2011
The Fourth Sunday of Advent, Year B
II Samuel 7:1-11, 16, Canticle 15, Romans 16:25-27, Luke 1:26-38

THY WILL BE DONE

The good news of the gospel is that YOU and I, each of us and all of us, have found favor with God! That is Paul’s “mystery that was kept secret for long ages but is now disclosed.” We have found such favor that Christ has come to dwell among us, to give us rest from our enemies, without and within. He came to live among us on earth 2000 years ago, and Christ comes to be with us today through his Holy Spirit, through his body and blood in Eucharist.

Certainly we don’t deserve God’s favor. We close our ears to the word of God. We ignore the call of God. We have not prepared a place for Christ in our hearts. We have done those things which we ought not to have done, and we have left undone those things which we ought to have done. There is, indeed, no health in us. God’s favor is pure grace—a gift of steadfast mercy and love. Like Mary, in this week’s gospel, we are perplexed. How can it be that we have found favor with God? What does it mean that the Holy Spirit will come upon us? How is it that Christ comes to dwell in, abide with, us? How can our outrageous rebelliousness ever be transformed into faithful obedience? It seems impossible, to say the least.

The answer is found in Mary’s example, in her willing acceptance of God’s radical grace. The Holy One waits for us to open ourselves, our hearts and minds, to receive the gifts prepared for us. Each of those gifts has our particular name on it, just as do the wrapped packages waiting under our Christmas trees. When we finally can join with Mary in saying, “Let it be with me according to your word,” we find the “power of the Most High” does visit us and enables us to walk in the path of the Incarnate One. As we begin to pray Mary’s simple prayer each day, we will come to recognize that, as our collect says, a mansion, designed by the Divine Architect, is being prepared in our hearts as the perfect dwelling place for God’s Love.
