July 17, 2011
Proper 11, Year A
Genesis 28:10-19a, Psalm 139:1-11, 22-23, Romans 8:12-25. Matthew 13:24-30, 36-43

THE FIELD IS ME

Jesus tells us parables to get our attention, to reach those of us who are ready to hear what the parable has to say to us today, which will likely be different from the message it had for us the last time we heard it or will have for us the next time we hear it. If we listen with open and receptive ears, we can become attuned to the Word of God in the here and now.

As I read the gospel for today, I discover that I am the field in the parable. Seeds planted in me have flourished over the years. Good seeds have come to fruition and have provided nourishment to others in a wide variety of ways, wherever God has used me to incarnate divine love for those whose lives I may have touched in some way, likely even unbeknownst to me. The fruitfulness of the good seeds fills me with peace and joy as I find it casting seeds into other fields where they take root and grow.

On the other hand, I can see clearly that weeds have had a heyday in the field of my life. The weeds grow tall and lush, attempting to take over my field, to leave no room for the plants of the good seeds to grow. Not only do the weeds try to choke out the good plants, they produce seeds which are cast far and wide. Some, like the seeds of a dandelion or milk weed, are carried on the wind looking for a likely place in someone else’s field to reproduce. Some of the weed seeds are brightly colored enticing birds to carry them to a receptive environment. Some, like stick-tights or sand spurs, grab onto those who are near and won’t let go. I trust God to protect those around me from my weed seeds—all the ways I miss the mark, closing my eyes to the needs of others, making self-centered choices, going around on auto-pilot.

I look forward to the time of harvest when the fire of God’s redeeming love will burn away all the weeds that have found my field vulnerable and unguarded, even receptive. “What a day of rejoicing that will be!” “Free at last, free at last, thank God Almighty, free at last!”
