January 9, 2011
First Sunday after the Epiphany, Year A
Isaiah 42:1-9, Psalm 29, Acts 10:34-43, Matthew 3:13-17

NEW THINGS

“New things I now declare; before they spring forth, I tell you of them.” According to the prophet Isaiah, that is the word of the Lord. Our creative, creating God is always doing something new. In the beginning, God brought order out of chaos—a very new thing! When the children of Israel were wandering in the wilderness, hungry and thirsty, God did a new thing; God provided manna for food and water from a rock to quench their thirst. When it was clear that the people of the world were missing God’s message, God did a new thing. God came among us as one of us to open our eyes to God’s love. After Jesus’ death and resurrection, the frightened band of disciples were at a loss about how to proceed, how to carry out Jesus’ commission to go into all the world to preach the gospel, so God did a new thing. With the rush of a mighty wind, God sent God’s own Holy Spirit appearing as tongues of fire anointing the apostles with the gifts they needed to fulfill their destiny, to show us what we can expect to experience in our own lives.

God did not stop doing new things when the canon of scripture was closed. God has been doing new things to benefit the world during the last 2000 years, inspiring and lifting up leaders in all fields of endeavor as they are needed, encouraging, inspiring us to hear and recognize God’s message of love. God is doing new things today throughout the world in all the religions of the world. God is doing new things in your life and mine, making us whole and holy, transforming us into the imago Dei God created us to be.

Take a few minutes to reflect on the world around you. What new things do you see springing forth from God’s loving presence? Think back on the past few years; where have you recognized God’s hand at work doing new things? Focus on your own life, and give thanks for the new things God is doing in your life here and now.
