June 5, 2011
Seventh Sunday of Easter, Year A
Acts 1:6-14, Ps. 68:1-10, 33-36, I Peter 4:12-14, 5:6-11, John 17:1-11

IS THIS THE TIME?

“Is this the time?” I take this phrase our of context of the apostles’ question regarding “the day of the Lord,” long expected by the Jewish people of that day. Today, it speaks to me of the immediacy of now, the present moment we so often miss in our ruminating over the past and/or anticipating the future. The idea that now is the time must be what I need to hear at this point in my life because I meet that message everywhere I go. Perhaps it also has your name on it.
Here are some relevant quotes that have come my way this week
“See, now is the day of salvation!” The apostle Paul, II Corinthians 6:2b
“Benedict tells us that it is today that is essential—that it is today which gives us the opportunity, the time and place for our encounter with Christ” Esther de Waal, Lost in Wonder
“It is always now and here that God happens.” Richard Rohr, The Naked Now
“Now is the most precious thing there is . . . because it is the only thing. It’s all there is. The eternal present is the space within which your whole life unfolds, the one factor that remains constant. . . It is your only point of access into the timeless and formless ream of Being.” Echart Tolle, The Power of Now
“The key is to find out where we are and just let ourselves be there, with awareness and with understanding . . . It is a heart quality of openness, of gentleness that is needed for us to recognize where we are and to abide there.” A.H. Almaas, The Unfolding Now
“One day at a time.” 12-Step Programs
“Get done what you came here to do, give the gifts you meant to give, do the good you’re able to do, say what you need to say, now, today, because everything you see is temporary, the clock is ticking and the alarm could go off any second.” Leonard Pitts, Jr., Miami Herald
“You do not have to Look for anything, just Look.
You do not have to Listen for specific Sounds, just Listen.
You do not have to Accomplish anything, just Be.
And in the Looking, and in the Listening, and in the Being, find Me.” Ann Lewin, quoted by Esther de Waal, Lost in Wonder

Yes, now is the time to open our hearts and minds to God, to one another, to love.
