April 24, 2011
Easter Day, Year A
Acts 10:34-43, Psalm 118:1-2, 14-24, Colossians 3:1-4, John 20:1-18

I HAVE SEEN THE LORD

On that first Easter morning, our gospel tells us, Mary Magdalene experienced the reality of resurrection, what John Shelby Spong in his book entitled Resurrection, Myth or Reality has called “the ‘big bang’ beginning of Christian history.” (p.234) Afterward, she proclaimed to the others, “I have seen the Lord.” She discovered that death could not contain the power of his being. That is the good news of Easter!
She hadn’t recognized his presence at first—something was very different. That difference was the hallmark of the experience of all those who came to realize the power of God’s use of the resurrection moment to open their eyes to new life: the couple on the way to Emmaus who felt their heats burning within (Lk.24:32), the frightened disciples huddled in the locked room whose fear was turned to joy (Jn.20:19-20), Thomas eventually confessing: “My Lord and my God!” (Jn.20:28), the fishermen at dawn on the Sea of Tiberias (Jn.21: 4, 7) That presence was not the same—something was different. Through the resurrection experience, they came to know the Lord in a new way—apart from his physical appearance they had known so well. They were changed from within, and the rest is history.
According to Spong, “. . . something unprecedented and unexpected erupted in human history. In the power of that experience cowards were turned into heroes, a scattered and demoralized group was reconstituted with new purpose and self-possessed drive, the deepest and most sacred definition of God was expanded instantaneously to incorporate the new experience, and a new holy day was created that . . .2000 years later organizes the week . . . in the Western world.” (p.30) Thanks be to God, we too can come to know that resurrection experience of new life in God in our own lives here and now. Our eyes can be opened to see, our ears to hear, our hearts to receive the transforming glory of God’s loving presence working deep within. And when that happens, we are called to witness to the reality of resurrection, declaring “I have seen the Lord.”

Alleluia. Christ is risen.
The Lord is risen indeed. Alleluia.
