February 27, 2011
Eighth Sunday after the Epiphany, Year A
Isaiah 49:8-16a, Psalm 131, I Corinthians 4:1-5, Matthew 6:24-34

WHAT WONDROUS LOVE IS THIS?

The Hymnal 1982, 439

When I hear in our lesson from the Hebrew scriptures God saying, “See, I have inscribed you on the palms of my hands,” the picture that immediately comes to mind for me is that of the nail holes in the palms of Jesus’ hands. Does that connection resonate at all for you; does it touch your heart with the reality of God’s love for us? Take a moment to realize that our names, our faces, our hearts and souls were inscribed by Roman soldiers on the palms of God’s hands as Jesus was nailed to the cross. Ponder a bit on what wondrous love this is.

When the risen Jesus appeared to the fearful disciples in the locked upper room on that first Easter evening, John tells us “he showed them his hands and his side.” (Jn. 20:19-20) His wounds identified him, declaring the truth of Jesus’ resurrection for them. When Thomas, who missed that first appearance, doubted their tale, Jesus appeared to him, again offering his wounded hands as proof of God’s faithfulness and redeeming grace. (Jn.20:24-29) Those wounds called to mind for the early church what we call the “Suffering Servant” images described elsewhere in the Isaiah prophecy. There are four passages (Is.42:1-4, 49:1-6, 50:4-11, 53:13-53:12) that speak to how God will use the suffering servant to bring light to the world, enabling us to understand the passion of Christ as the work of God’s reconciling love. Take out your Bible and read through those passages—let them sink into your mind and heart, opening your eyes to this wondrous love God has for us. “By his blood, he reconciled us. By his wounds we re healed.” (BCP, Eucharistic Prayer C, p.370) “For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son. . . “ (Jn.3:16) “No one has greater love than this, to lay down one’s life for one’s friends.” (Jn.15:13)

“The Lord has bared his holy arm (I see “his holy arm” as Christ Jesus) before the eyes of all nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God.” (Is.52:10) Baring his holy arm is what our collect for today speaks of as it says: “that love which is immortal and which [God] manifested in . . . Jesus Christ our Lord.” Nothing can separate us and all creation from that wondrous love of God—thanks be to God!
