January 2, 2011
Second Sunday after Christmas, Year A
Jeremiah 31:7-14, Psalm 84, Ephesians 1:3-6, 15-19a, Matthew 2:13-15, 19-23

REVELATION

God wants to reveal Godself to us, to each of us and to all of us. 2000 years ago God revealed God’s presence in the world in Jesus. Some people were open to receive that revelation. More were not. The same is true for us now.
I often say, “God meets us where we are as we are.” God knows the circumstances of our lives. God knows how our particular minds and hearts work. God knows what we are open to receive and from what we are closed off. God knows how our nature and our nurture have prepared us to recognize the encounter with the Divine when it occurs. Look at Joseph in our gospel for today. Because of his Jewish background, he knew that God could come to him in dreams, and God did, at crucial junctures in his life—three times in the passage alone. For people who ignore or reject dreams, however, God chooses different avenues of revelation.
I am a reader, a voracious reader—my husband says I have a hungry eye. God knows that and has reached me through books of all kinds over the years to reveal whatever I have been ready to receive about the Divine. For people for whom books aren’t so important, God chooses another way that is just right for each one. Artists of all stripes, for example, seem to find God revealed in their work, and God may use the results of their efforts to reach some of us. My gardener friends, on the other hand, tell me the revelatory encounter for them most often occurs when their hands are deep in dirt. Because I am known to have a brown thumb, in contrast to their green thumbs, I don’t expect God to reach me in that way, but you never know. Most often for me, the encounter comes when I least expect it, where I’m not looking for it. Frequently, I experience a moment of synchronicity, some meaningful coincidence of two or more seemingly unrelated things, that God uses to get my attention and call me into God’s presence.
God’s revelatory process is different for each of us, designed to meet our own unique needs and desires. As the new year begins, consider for a moment all the ways that God’s revelations have come to you and give thanks that God gives “you a spirit of wisdom and revelation as you come to know him, so that with the eyes of your heart enlightened, you may know the hope to which he has called you.”
