January 8, 2012
The First Sunday after the Epiphany, Year B
Genesis 1:1-5, Psalm 29, Acts 19:1-7, Mark 1:4-11

THE VOICE OF GOD

Our psalmist was well acquainted with the bat qol (Hebrew for “the voice of God”), with its power and its blessing, as were the prophets of old who announced to the people of Israel the word of the Lord that came to each of them. The voice of God came to Elijah on the mountain, not in the earthquake, wind and fire, but in a still small voice, the sound of sheer silence (I Kgs.19:9-16). That says to me that we need to let go of the cacophony of life if we want to be quiet enough to hear God’s voice within. The voice of God came to Moses in the wilderness when he espied the burning bush (Ex.3:1-6)—that speaks to me of how God may use creation to get our attention—the ebb and flow of the tides here on the coast, for example, the sunrises and sunsets wherever we are, the macro, the micro, as we notice and become aware. Others, including Joseph of the coat of many colors (Gen.37:3-11), Joseph espoused of Mary (Mt. 1:20-21), the wise men from the east bearing gifts for the king of the Jews (Mt.2:12), the apostle Paul in his call to go to Macedonia (Acts 16:9-10), heard the voice of God in their dreams—another way God may speak to us if we pay attention, capture our dreams before they disappear, and reflect on what they have to say to us. The voice of God may come as a revelation or confirmation as for Jesus at his baptism (Mt.3:13-17, Mk.1:9-11, Lk.3:21-22), or for Peter, James and John on the mount of transfiguration (Mt. 17:1-8, Mk.9:2-8, Lk.9:28-36).

The voice of God may come to us today in many guises—if we are open to hear what God has to say. When we are ready—and expectant—it may come to us externally as we read scripture or other inspired writings. It may come to us internally as inspiration for our thoughts, words or deeds. It may come as synchronicity, a meaningful coincidence of unlikely things that gets our attention and causes us to explore its meaning. It may come as a new insight into our relationship with God, others, the world. It can sound through our outer ears, as if the speaker were standing right beside us—or deep within, heard with the ears of our heart.

The creating word of God is still at work in your life and mine. Can you hear it?
