May 27, 2012
The Day of Pentecost, Year B
Acts 2:1-21, Psalm 104:25-35, 37b, Romans 8:22-27, John 15:26-27, 26:4b-15

AMAZED AND PERPLEXED

When Christ Jesus’ disciples received the Holy Spirit in Jerusalem on that Pentecost morning, the bystanders were “amazed and perplexed,” asking “What does it mean?” I suspect the disciples were also “amazed and perplexed.” It was a completely new experience for them. They were changed inside and out, empowered to spread the good news of Christ Jesus, the truth of God.

When we experience the presence of the Holy Spirit in our lives today, we too may be “amazed and perplexed.” We may wonder what such a numinous experience means for us in the here and now. Because each experience is unique, we may question the reality of our experience or our understanding of it. Sometimes the anointing of the Holy Spirit may be as quiet and peaceful as Jesus breathing on the disciples in the upper room that first Easter evening (Jn.20:22). Sometimes it may be as stunning as Paul’s Damascus road experience (Acts 9:3-9). Sometimes it may be as thrilling as that Pentecost morning when the disciples found themselves speaking in foreign languages unknown to them, but understood by others. Sometimes we may experience the Holy Spirit as the Comforter, the One who strengthens and encourages us when we are discouraged or sorrowful. Sometimes we may recognize the Holy Spirit as the Paraclete, the One who walks beside us when we are lonely or afraid. Sometimes we may know the Holy Spirit as the call of God, the power of God, the wisdom of God, the love of God, the voice of God, the inspiration of God, or the truth of God. There’s no limit to the ways the Holy Spirit may use to reach us where we are, as we are.

No matter how the Holy Spirit may come to us, we can trust God’s graciousness to provide whatever we may need in the particular circumstances and situations of our lives as we live into God’s will for us and the world. Whenever we become aware of the Holy Spirit, may we quickly move from amazement and perplexity to rejoicing in and giving thanks for the active presence of God in our lives.
