February 5, 2012
The Fifth Sunday after the Epiphany, Year B
Isaiah 40:21-31, Psalm 147;!-12, 21c, I Corinthians 9:16-23, Mark 1:29-29

WAIT FOR THE LORD

We are not a waiting society. We want it (whatever it may be), and we want it right now. We seem to think that we are on call 24/7, and if we’re not in control every minute, we’ll lose out. The brass ring will go to someone else. The world will collapse around us or something worse that we don’t even want to think about. We act as if we don’t have time to stop and reflect on our lives or the world around us, and the pit we are digging for ourselves gets deeper and deeper.

Trinity’s new Book Discussion Group has just finished Gerald May’s The Wisdom of Wilderness: Experiencing the Healing Power of Nature. May felt that way at one point in his life, and in following his yearning to get away from it all, he discovered the unmediated Presence of God in the wilderness. He came to know the Wisdom of God working deep within, healing his wounds, as he surrendered his need to be in control and opened his body, mind and spirit to what he called the “Power of Slowing.” As he slowed down in his wilderness experiences, he became aware that the Divine Presence could somehow work through his energy level. When there was something he needed to do, pitch his tent, build a fire, he would feel energized. When the energy lapsed, he learned to be at peace, just being in the Presence—waiting for God.

When I read our lesson from the prophet Isaiah for today, I was reminded of May’s experience. Isaiah promises wondrous encouragement for “those who wait for the Lord.” When they feel faint in the overwhelming situations of life, God gives them power to stand firm; when they feel powerless, strength comes. He says, “Those who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall mount up with wings like eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint.” That sounds like something worth waiting for, for letting go of my need to be in charge.

May says, “We all need to allow ourselves to be led into our own wildernesses, there to be taught what we need to know, and to be healed where we most need it.” He goes on to say, “. . . if you are willing, and if you listen very gently and carefully you will sense that this mysterious Wisdom is ready to lead you, guide you where you need to be.” And that is indeed worth waiting for.
