September 22, 2013
Proper 20, Year R C
Jeremiah 8:18—9:1, Psalm 79:1-9, I Timothy 2:1-7, Luke 16:1-13

PRAYERS OF THE PEOPLE

In the epistle lesson for today, we find the scriptural foundation for the “Prayers of the People in our liturgy: “First of all, then I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for everyone, for kings and all who are in high positions, so that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and dignity.” At 8:00 we pray for “the whole state of Christ’s Church and the world” using the form on pp.329-220 in the Book of Common Prayer, and at the 10:30 service we use one of the forms found between pp.383-393.

On a table just inside the door of Trinity Church is a prayer notebook for folks to record their particular prayer concerns which are read aloud at both services, along with the appropriate prayer form, while giving the congregation opportunity to name others who have not been mentioned. After the service, the notebook is placed on the altar, at the foot of the cross, trusting the light of God’s love to focus on each one in just the way that may be needed to bring the person to wholeness and holiness.

A list of people needing prayer is on the announcement sheet in the bulletin. It is easily removable for folks to take home and use for their intercessory prayers during the week. The altar is open for healing prayer during the prelude before the 10:30 service. People come to the altar for anointing with oil, the laying on of hands, and prayers for themselves or others near and dear to them. On Wednesday at 11:00 there is a Healing Eucharist currently being held in the Oratory in the Annex; occasionally, weather permitting, it is held in the Memorial Garden. Again our prayer concerns are lifted up with anointing and laying on of hands. We also have a Prayer Chain for immediate needs, and blessed Prayer Shawls are available for folks with long-term needs.

Trinity Church is a praying church. “This is right and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who desires everyone to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth.” We give thanks and praise to our prayer-answering God, trusting God’s will to be done in our lives and all those for whom we pray.
