May 12, 2013
The Seventh Sunday of Easter, Year R C
Acts 16:16-34, Psalm 97, Revelation 22:12-14, 16-17, 20-21, John 20-26

MARANATHA

“Come, Lord Jesus!” Maranatha! This is one of those universal arrow prayers like “Help!” and “Thanks.” It seems to be appropriate in every situation of our lives, whether we are joyful or sorrowful, angry, distraught, or at peace. For example:

Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I have lost my way.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when a smile lifts my spirits.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I have no answers for my questions.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I am surprised by meaningful coincidences.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I need forgiveness.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when grandchildren dance with me.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I am discouraged or sorrowful.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I am called to pray for another.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I have taken on too much.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I gaze in wonder at the night sky.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I have ignored the needs of others.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when my heart is full of love.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when fear stops me in my tracks.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I feel loving arms holding me close.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when anger wells up to overwhelm me.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when joy overflows.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I am lonely and bereft.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I am in awe of the sunrise.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when ennui, acedie, saps my energy.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I am delighted with my Knock-Out roses.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I regret what I have done to hurt others.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I see beauty in the lizard on my porch.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I have betrayed a confidence.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when the breeze wafts gently across my skin.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I am worn out from all my busyness.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I smell the fragrance of the magnolia blossom.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I am meditating on your holy word.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I am anxious about what might happen.
Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus, when I am enthralled by an author’s turn of phrase.

Maranatha, “come, Lord Jesus, dwell in [me] in the fullness of [your] strength, in the perfection of [your] ways, and in the holiness of [your] spirit, and rule over ever hostile power in the might of [your] Spirit, and to the glory of the Father. Amen.” (St. Augustine’s Prayer Book, p.110)
