August 4, 2013
Proper 13, Year R C
Hosea 11:1-11, Psalm 107:1-9, 43, Col.3:1-11, Luke 12:13-21

ARE YOU RICH TOWARD GOD?

In Jesus’ parable about the greedy farmer in our gospel today, he says the farmer’s problem is that he is not “rich toward God.” What does that phrase mean? Other versions express it as “rich in the sight of God” (JB), “rich where God is concerned” (J.B.Phillips), “rich in relation to God”(Amplified NT); in other words, having a full and rich personal relationship with the Divine. Paul’s letter to the Colossians, in the verses immediately following our prescribed epistle lesson for today (Col.3:12-17) spells it out for us—in practical terms, it means loving one another unselfishly and giving thanks to God in all things. Take time to open your Bible and read it for yourself. That sounds so deceptively easy, but it’s, oh, so difficult to live out.

We’re compassionate (so long as it doesn’t take too much of our time or energy). We’re kind to everyone (who is kind to us). We’re humble and meek (until someone puts us down). We’re patient (unless we are in a hurry or on a tight schedule). We don’t complain about others (except to our closest friends). We don’t hold grudges (very often or for very long). We never argue (so long as everyone does everything our way). We’re always grateful (for our blessings, that is). We have good intentions, but Christ Jesus probably wouldn’t want his name attached to everything we say and do. We all too often fall far short of the scriptural ideal.

What can we do about that? Obviously, building bigger barns is not the answer! In order to become “rich toward God,” we have to spend time with the Holy One in prayer every day, listening to the Divine Word, opening ourselves up to God’s transforming love, and trusting God’s healing grace to cleanse us of our self-centered perspective. Then we will be able to respond to the opportunities that appear on our way with generous self-giving love. As Paul puts it: “Above all, clothe yourselves with love, which binds everything together imperfect harmony. And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts . . . “
