November 17, 2013
Proper 28, Year R C
Isaiah 65:17-25, Canticle 9, II Thessalonians 3:6-13, Luke 21:5-19

READ, MARK, LEARN, AND INWARDLY DIGEST HOLY SCRIPTURE

The title comes from our collect for the day. Of course, we know what it is to read, mark and learn scripture, but just what does it mean to inwardly digest it? It doesn’t mean reading the Bible from cover-to-cover just to get through it. It doesn’t even mean memorizing special verses or passages, although that can be a fruitful exercise.

The digestion metaphor is used to indicate that we need to feed on God’s word. Just as we need food every day in order to be healthy and strong, so we need to pick up the Bible every day and take a hefty bite out of it if we want to grow strong in our relationship with the Divine. We need to chew the message contained in that bite carefully so that we learn what all it has to tell us, and then we can swallow it without choking. In fact, it is helpful to follow the example of cows chewing their cuds, that is, bringing it up over and over through the day reflecting on whatever we hear. In so doing, we can digest all the nutrients the passage has to offer us and grow tall in the way of the Lord.

Like manna in the wilderness, God’s word for us is fresh and new each day. The message we receive from any particular passage is different each time we ponder it anew because we are in a different place in our spiritual journey. We need something different; we are ready to receive something different, and God meets us where we are, as we are. Furthermore, the Holy One will continue to reveal new insights to us as we put previous ones into practice, as we take action to show that we are taking the message to heart, that we recognize it has our name on it.

What we have received, we are called to share with others. As we come to inwardly digest the God’s holy word, the Beloved uses us to help those who can’t find the banquet table or those who find the food too rich for their starving stomachs.
