August 17, 2014
Proper 15, Year R A
Genesis 45:1-15, Psalm 133 Romans 11:1-2a, 29-32, Matthew 15: (10-20), 21-28

. . . BUT GOD

Years ago, a dear friend loaned me a book that got my attention. The book was entitled But God and was written by a minister friend of her family whose name escapes me. It was based on Joseph’s statement to his brothers in our lesson today from the Hebrew scriptures: “So it was not you who sent me here, but God.” The book contained one story after another where people came to realize that their intentions weren’t the cause of their current situation, rather each one recognized it was the providential grace of God that saved the day. I never read this passage without thinking about my friend and the ways I have experienced “But God.”
In the Joseph story, his brothers had evil intentions for selling their brother into slavery, but God used that to save Egypt, as well as their family, when the long famine came. All they could see was their black hearts, but Joseph, who had experienced the presence of God in his life throughout all his travails, was able to see the bigger picture. God uses good intentions, as well, to bring life out of death. In the New Testament, the apostle Paul, despite all his trials and tribulations in his fervor to evangelize the known world, recognized the same truth: “We know all things work together for good for those who love God, who are called according to his purpose.” (Rom.8:28) Our intentions may be for good or ill, but “God is working his purpose out.” (#534, Hymnal 1982)
God attends to you and me—and our unique place in creation, to this community, this country, “this fragile earth our island home”, the universe, all creation, far beyond what we can begin to imagine. We tend to be so self-centered that we can’t see very far beyond our immediate circumstances, even with 24/7 news and the vastness of the Internet. We are limited by the boundaries we choose for ourselves, as were Joseph’s brothers. But God, the Source and Essence of all creation, is at work within and without, transforming it all with Love, through Love, by Love. The Holy One is healing us, bringing us to wholeness and holiness in ways we have yet to grasp with our rational capabilities. It is our hearts that can recognize the presence of God sanctifying all creation, transforming humanity into the image of God we were created to be.
