June 15, 2014
Trinity Sunday, Year R A
Genesis 1:1—2:4a, Psalm 8, II Corinthians 13:11-13, Matthew 28:16-20

I AM WITH YOU ALWAYS

“[R]emember I am with you always [all ways], to the end of the age.” Christ Jesus’ farewell to his disciples in our gospel today may be the most encouraging, comforting promise in all of scripture. God, the great I AM, is with us here and now just as that Presence was experienced throughout scripture and, in particular, by the disciples on that day on the mountain in Galilee. As our relationship with the Holy One grows and develops we can expect to experience God all ways, within and without, as the Trinity of Father, Son and Holy Spirit.
We may experience God as our Father/Mother, the nurturing parent, providing just what we need, spiritually as well as materially, day by day, guiding, protecting us on the way through this earthly life. We may become aware of and recognize the presence of God in our lives as the Creator, described in our lesson from the Hebrew scriptures, as we enjoy the blessings of creation all around us, as we experience the creative juices bubbling up from within us as we are moved to create in our own milieu. We may come to know God as the Beloved as we accept the Love in whom we live and move and have our being.
Then there’s God the Son, whose incarnation in Christ Jesus the disciples followed to that mountain in Galilee. Christ Jesus is the one whom we recognize as our savior and redeemer, the incarnate Word of God spoken in the beginning. We know him as brother, friend, healer, bridegroom, the pioneer and perfecter of our faith, the image of the invisible God in whom all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. We can experience the reality of Christ Jesus’ presence in us when we consume the body and blood of Christ in Holy Communion.
We experience the presence of Holy Spirit as the Paraclete, the one who walks beside us, before and behind, above and beneath. We know the Holy Spirit as the comforter, the one who strengthens us on the way, the sustainer of life who inspires us with the breath of God, who gifts us with wisdom and understanding, counsel and might, knowledge, piety, and holy awe, and brings forth the fruit of love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, generosity, faithfulness, and self-control in our lives.
Feel the Fire of Love anointing you this day, and know that I AM with you all ways.
