July 6, 2014
Proper 9, Year R A
Proper 9,Year A
Genesis 24:34-38, 42-49, 58-67, Psalm 45:11-18, Romans 7:15-25a, Matthew 11:16-19, 25-30

REVELATION

God wants to reveal Godself to us, but we are generally so consumed with the world around us that we seldom are alert enough to notice the Divine Presence in our midst. That’s what Jesus describes in today’s gospel—“the wise and the intelligent”, the busy, the power-hungry, those who want or need to be in control, the self-absorbed are too insular and closed off to receive what God has to offer. Infants, on the other hand, are a perfect metaphor for being open, available, receptive, hungry for and awed by divine revelation.
God’s revelation comes to us one on one as we are ready to receive. Seldom does it come with fanfare and flashing lights; rather it may be quiet, subtle, gentle (I Kgs.19:11-12). We may have our eyes opened to the Creator God “as we wander lazily by the radiant primrose—snuggled in the grass” (Edwina Gateley) or as we hear ourselves having the right words for someone in distress, for example. In the dark, dismal times of our lives, God may be revealed to us as the Light at the end of the tunnel, the Comforter, the Paraclete who walks beside us providing strength and encouragement. Or we may find God revealed as the One who provides just what we need when we need it. That was the experience of those in our other scriptures appointed for today.
Abraham’s servant in our lesson from the Hebrew scriptures experienced a prayer-answering God as he recognized the hand of the Lord at work in his life leading him on his quest to find the right bride of Isaac. The apostle Paul too, in today’s epistle passage, after realizing what a mess he is, recognized with gratefulness and joy the revelation of God as the One who makes a difference in his life. Just like those in scripture, God meets us where we are as we are, lovingly revealing what we are ready and able to receive and accept into our hearts and minds, enabling us to reveal ourselves as children of God, incarnations of God’s love in the here and now.
