July 27, 2014
Proper 12, Year R A
Genesis 29:15-28, Psalm 105:1-11, 45b, Romans 8:26-39, Matthew 13:31-33, 44-52
NEW AND OLD

In our gospel for today, Jesus speaks of the master of a household as one “who brings out of his treasure what is new and what is old.” Since we are members of the household of God (Eph. 2:19), for me, that says God is bringing us the particular treasures we need to be prepared for the kingdom of heaven (the presence of God)—old things, new things.
Creation—“In the beginning”—that is as old as we can get. The apostle Paul tells us, “Ever since the creation of the world [God’s] eternal power and divine nature, invisible though they are, have been understood and seen through the things he has made.” (Rom. 1:20) Meister Eckhart in the 14th century reiterates that truth a bit differently: “Every creature (each and all the things God has made) is a word of God and a book about God.” As we come into awareness as an infant, the creation around us then is the beginning of our revelation of the Divine. As we mature and come into contact with the Holy Scriptures that we call the Word of God, our understanding of God grows in relation to the depth of our contact. God uses these two “old” treasures to open our eyes to the reality of the Divine Presence within and without.
Our self-revealing, self-communicating God doesn’t allow the “old” merely to molder away through our inattention. The Holy One continues to reach out to us in “new” ways through the “old”. For example, as we focus on the Word of God, we find it is not a static old document. It is dynamic. We can hear it calling our name, addressing the circumstances of our world today, opening our hearts to self-giving love. And current scientific understanding is enabling us to recognize the interdependence of all creation, that we are one with each and all, regardless of our differences. As we experience the breath of God with every breath we take, may we be aware of God’s presence enfolding and unfolding all creation, drawing us ever deeper into the heart of the kingdom of heaven.
