June 28, 2015
Proper 8, Year R B
II Samuel 1:1, 17-27, Psalm 130, II Corinthians 8:7-15, Mark 5:21-43
EAGERNESS
As I read the lessons for today, “eagerness” is the word that claims my attention for reflection. I think about how pleasant it is when you ask your children to do some chore, and they are happy to do it, whatever it may be, rather than doing it with a sullen attitude or even worse, a rebellious “No!” Or those times in the work world when you have an unpleasant job to assign, maybe it’s tough or maybe just boring, but surprisingly, the worker can’t wait to get started. Then there are the times when you have to recruit volunteers for some worthwhile project in the community, in church. Too often the responses you hear are: “I just don’t have time;” “I’m going to be out of town;” “I can’t possibly do that. I don’t know how; I have no talent, skill for that; it’s not my gift;” and on and on. But what a joy and delight when you find someone who is eager to participate, to help, even to organize the effort and recruit others as well. To discover others’ eagerness to do what is needed is a blessing!
How do we respond to God’s call to us to incarnate divine love in our world here and now? Do we ignore the nudge to call or visit the shut-in, to take a dish to someone who is ill? Do we look the other way when someone who makes us uncomfortable comes our way? When we are asked to do something out of our comfort zone, do we shrink back or have the courage to say yes and allow ourselves to be stretched by Love in new ways? Are we eager to follow in Christ’s footsteps?
Elsewhere in this same letter to the Corinthians (9:7), Paul tells us: “. . . for God loves a cheerful giver.” When I was a child that was the regular offertory sentence at my church. Because of Paul’s context, we have tended to limit our thoughts about giving to our monetary resources, even when stewardship chairs strive to encourage us to consider how we use our time and talent. But God longs for us to give ourselves completely, body, mind, and spirit, cheerfully in the service of Love, however the opportunity may present itself. Just imagine God’s delight when we respond with compassionate self-giving in eager abandon.
