December 18, 2016

The Fourth Sunday of Advent, Year A

Isaiah 7:10-16, Psalm 80:1-7, 16-18, Romans 1:1-7, Matthew 1:18-25

AN ANGEL OF THE LORD

We know angels are messengers from God. In today’s gospel, we hear that Joseph’s angel appeared in a dream. That is a common motif in scripture; recall, for example, Jacob’s dream at Bethel where a ladder stretched from earth to heaven, “and the angels were ascending and descending on it.”(Gen.28:12-17) Scripture also describes others having visions of angels. One that comes easily to mind at this time of year is Zechariah’s vision of “an angel standing at the right side of the altar of incense” in the temple (Lk.1:8-20) announcing the forthcoming birth of the one we have come to call John the Baptist. And then we have Mary, depicted in untold numbers of artworks as going about her daily business where she was visited by the angel Gabriel with his divine message of her impending pregnancy. (Lk.1:26-38) All different venues, yet all recognized as personal messengers from God.

The Holy One continues to send angels of all kinds to get the divine message of Love across to us in our lives today. Several years ago we went trough a spiritual fad focusing on angels. Books, magazines, movies, TV shows about them swept across the country, and as quickly as they came, they faded away. Yet, from time to time, angels still come to us as needs be in whatever way the Beloved knows we can recognize and accept. Some people tell stories of their perception of an angelic intervention saving their lives. Others may recognize a timely message from a stranger as being an angelic word. Folks near death often see angels in the room around them. We’re each and all unique in God’s creation, and the Beloved reaches out to us where we are, as we are, with whatever it takes to get our attention to draw us into the bosom of Love.

As you look back or your life, notice if there were times when som

ething unusual occurred when you might have “entertained angels without knowing it.” (Heb.13:2) What was it like? Can you, with today’s eyes and heart, see the hand of God at work in your life in that situation, sending you an angel in whatever garb? Be alert; one may show up today.
