June 26, 2016

Proper 8, Year C

II Kings 2:1-2, 6-14, Psalm 77:1-2, 11-20, Galatians 5:1, 13-25, Luke 9:51-62

LOST ?

How often when someone asks you to do something, do you say, “Sure, but first . . . “? What is your response to the Divine when you experience a nudge to do something for someone, or a call to serve (miniscule or overwhelming), or an inspiration to initiate something new in your community? Is it like the folks in our gospel today who are willing, “but first” they’ve got other things to take care of. Take a few minutes now to sit quietly and reflect on your own “but firsts.” Are they your real priorities? We may have good intentions; we want to follow Jesus, but we let other things get in our way. Life seems to interfere: we have responsibilities to others; there are only 24 hours in the day; we aren’t ready; stumbling blocks appear on the way. On and on our excuses and delays pile up, and “the still, small voice of God (I Kgs.19:12, KJV) may get lost in the shuffle of our busyness.

On the other hand, if we make our relationship with God our first priority, if we spend time with the Beloved, listening to that still, small voice, paying attention to that Word that calls us by name, we find our “but firsts” disappearing. Not only that, but we begin to see the first buds of the fruit of the Spirit opening in our hearts. As we respond to the Holy One with alacrity, we begin to notice the transforming touch of Love at work in our lives. It doesn’t happen overnight, but we come to recognize that we are different inside. We no longer react in the same old ways that held sway over us for so many years. We begin to experience the reality of love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, generosity, faithfulness, gentleness and self-control bubbling up from deep within as we relate to others day by day. As that fruit ripens within and without, we realize our self-centeredness is being changed by God’s grace into compassionate self-giving. No longer are we lost in busyness; rather we are lost in the indwelling, enfolding Love of God who is ever bringing us to wholeness and holiness.

Lost in busyness or lost in Love? Where are you today?
