October 15, 2017

Proper 23, Year A

Exodus 32:1-14, Psalm 106:1-6, 19-23, Philippians 4:1-9, Matthew 22:1-14

STIFF-NECKED PEOPLE

After reading the lesson from the Hebrew scriptures, it is apparent that we haven’t changed very much since the time of Moses. God looked at the Israelites in the wilderness and told Moses, “I have seen this people, how stiff-necked they are.” I suspect that is what God says of us today. Just look at the world around you. In every venue, folks are warring against one another, no matter the issue. Pro or con, conservative or liberal/progressive, right or left, it doesn’t matter. Folks are stubborn, obstinate, certain that their way is the right way, the only way, and folks who don’t agree with them are worse than wrong; they must be anathema. So here we are today, finding it easy to separate from one another at every opportunity, forgetting that God calls us to love one another.

Take time to read slowly the Philippians lesson once again. It appears that Euodia and Syntyche have come to an impasse and need help. Recognize they are stand-ins for you and me here and now. Paul urges them “to be of the same mind in the Lord.” And goes on to suggest a model for moving on together through prayer. He reminds them that “The Lord is near.” If we could only remember and trust that Emmanuel, God is with us at all times and in all places, perhaps we could allow the Divine Presence to dissolve our stiff-necked positions, our judgments, at home, at work, at Church, in the community, in the world. Just imagine what that would be like when we are, each and all, free to love one another with compassionate, self-giving love, trusting that “the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.”

To bring that to pass in our own lives here and now, it is helpful to follow Paul’s advice on what to spend our time focusing on. Try it, and watch your stiff-neck, your hard heart soften in the presence of the Holy One.
