January 22, 2017

The Third Sunday after the Epiphany, Year A

Isaiah 9:1-4, Psalm 27:1, 5-13, I Corinthians 1:10-18, Matthew 4:12-23

PROCLAMATION

Just as Jesus called his first disciples to “Follow me,” he issues that same invitation to us today, to walk in his ways, to proclaim the good news of God’s love in the here and now. We are prone to think of proclamation as the task of preachers in the pulpit; that, of course, let’s us off the hook. St. Frances, however, doesn’t let us get away with that cop out; he is noted for saying: “Preach the gospel; use words if you must.” In other words, we are called to incarnate God’s love in our lives today, in all the situations and circumstances of our lives, whatever they may be. It is part of our Baptismal Covenant (BCP, p.305), where we acknowledge in our response that we can’t do it on our own, that we need God’s help.

One of the ways God encourages and helps us to proclaim the good news that we have experienced in our own lives is by providing models for us. As I was pondering this, I received Cowley’s Lenten Series Workbook for this year where I discovered the following: “Spend some time now thinking of people who are or have been channels of God’s Good News to you, not just by their words, but by their loving action. People who radiate love and light, simplicity and joy. People who embody humility and peace. People who, perhaps, have borne suffering well or have in some other way inspired you by their devotion.”(5 Marks of LOVE, Society of St. John the Evangelist) What a great exercise!

I hope you try it. I did, and several came to mind; some are still around and others have passed on. Anyone who knew my mother would testify that she was such a channel for each and all, although she was far too humble ever to imagine that to be so. And then there was a dear spiritual friend who died of lung cancer some years ago. The church was overflowing at her funeral with all the lives she had touched, and at the reception following, stories of how God had used her for others filled the air. I have another friend who never opens her mouth about her relationship with God, but that doesn’t keep the Beloved from using her to be the instrument of Divine Love everywhere she goes. She is utterly self-giving to others. Clearly it takes all kinds to proclaim the good news. If we are open and available, God can use even you and me.
