December 25, 2017
Christmas Day, Proper Ii
Isaiah 62:6-12, Psalm 97, Titus 3:4-7, Luke 2: (1-7) 8-20

OUT OF THE DARKNESS

It is dark, crisp and cold, the stars shining brightly in the clear night sky. The sheep are finally settled down for the night. All is well. Can you picture it? You are there with the other shepherds, when all of a sudden, the scene before you is bathed in brilliant light, almost blinding you. This startling phenomenon terrifies you all. You’ve never seen anything like this before. What can it be? What is happening? In the midst of the awesome light, you can make out an ethereal spirit. It must be an angel of God whom you hear saying, “Do not be afraid.” The angel speaks with such a calming voice, it is like being anointed with a healing balm as your fear dissolves and melts away.

As you calm down, you realize that the angel is announcing the coming of the long-awaited Messiah. Finally, after all this time, the promise of God is becoming reality! It is hard to believe, hard to imagine that, even if it were true, God would send an angelic messenger to lowly shepherds. But the angel was full of unlikely details, the city of David, swaddling cloths, a manger—you have to check it out. Bethlehem is the city of David, and it isn’t too far away; besides the sheep, awakened by the light, are up and milling around. Off you go, wondering all the while, if you’re crazy, if this is a fool’s errand.

It is dawn by the time you get to Bethlehem. Asking about, you go to the stable behind the inn, and there, just as the angel said, is a newborn baby sleeping peacefully in the manger filled with hay. You are amazed—you can hardly believe your eyes. You all begin talking at once, telling the astounded parents about your experience. Others begin to gather, wondering why the shepherds and their flock are here in the city this morning. They hear your testimony, see the baby, and try to make sense of your amazing story.

Realizing the blessing of God you have received, you take your sheep and return to the winter grazing pasture, continually praising God for the glorious Love made known to you.
