May 26, 2019

The Sixth Sunday of Easter, Year C

Acts 16:9-15, Psalm67, Revelation 21:10, 22—22:5, John 14:23-29

COME TO US

The psalmist today calls upon God to “come to us.” God does come to us in all kinds of ways when our eyes, ears, and hearts are open and ready to receive the Divine Presence. Just look at the scriptures appointed for today for a few examples to prime the pump, to help us recognize how God comes to us in the here and now.

In the very first sentence of the first lesson, the apostle Paul receives a vision, or perhaps a dream since it occurred “during the night.” God, who is known as the Holy Dream Maker, often comes to us when our self-serving defenses are quieted in sleep. The Beloved also uses others as avenues for the Holy Presence—notice Lydia at the end of that passage. God opens her heart to listen, and she responds in hospitality asking Paul and his companions to “come and stay at my house.” The apocalyptic vision given to John on Patmos in our second lesson shows the Holy One coming as cleansing, life-giving light to provide “the healing of the nations”—that indicates all will be enlightened by God’s gracious love at the end time. Jesus’ precious promise in our gospel: “I am coming to you,” and elsewhere, “And remember I am with you always to the end of the age,” (Mt.28:20b) encourages us to trust that the Divine Presence will be with us whatever comes our way.

Take time to reflect on the ways you have experienced the Beloved coming to you, and give thanks. It may have been times when you were awed by the magnificence of creation, or seeing the words come off your pen as you journaled, or were carried away by listening to sublime music, or touched by watching little children at play, or being nestled by your pet, or being surprised by an unexpected call or visit from a long-distance friend—the Beloved is endlessly creative and particularly unique in reaching us as God works in our lives transforming us into the imago dei we were created to be.
