July 14, 2019

Proper 10, Year C

Amos 7:7-17, Psalm 82, Colossians 1:1-14, Luke 10:25-37

SAINTS

Do you know the story of the little boy in Sunday School who was asked who the Saints were? Thinking of those depicted in the stained glass windows in his church, he said, “They’re the ones who let the light shine through.” That story came to mind when I read “the saints in light” phrase in today’s second lesson and started thinking about those who have been saints in my life.

Looking at scripture to begin with, I start with the prophet Isaiah in the Hebrew scriptures. He has such encouraging words to lift us up when we are discouraged or sorrowful. There’s impetuous Peter, of course, always jumping in without thinking, and certainly the women: Ruth who took care of her mother-in-law, Mary who said yes to the angel Gabriel, and Mary Magdalene who was Jesus’ apostle to the disciples. The mystics through the ages have illuminated the path for me: Julian of Norwich, Hildegard of Bingen, Meister Eckhart, Teresa of Avila, Francis of Assisi, Mechtild of Magdeburg, and on and on. In more modern times, there have been writers like Madeleine L’Engle who first gave me words for what I already knew in my heart, and Matthew Fox who pointed the way to the many wells on the stream of God’s ever-flowing love. Because I am a voracious reader, the list of writers is too long to include here, but I am so grateful for the light each and all provided for me just when I needed it. Then there are the people in my life who have been and are saints for me. First, Mother, who had patience and fortitude far beyond Job, radiated the light of faithfulness and compassionate love to all she met, and especially to our family. A couple of special spiritual friends here in the Panhandle, Cherry and Diane, have led me deeper into relationship with the Beloved, and in Georgia, Fay, Steve and Oliver at the Green Bough House of Prayer who give their lives to feed hungry seekers like me both spiritually and physically. And last but certainly not least, Bob whose deep, abiding love sheds light on all the places where I need to grow.

Think about it for a bit. Who have been saints in your life?
