March 14, 2021

The Fourth Sunday in Lent, Year B

Numbers 21:4-9, Psalm 107:1-3, 17-22, Ephesians 2:1-10, John 3:14-21

THE GIFT OF GOD

Our collect for today recognizes that God "gives life to the world," to you and me, certainly, but also to all creation throughout the cosmos. It is out of Divine Love that God continues to say, "Let there be . . ." and it comes to pass in all its fullness. What response can we possibly offer but thanksgiving?

There is an old gospel hymn that suggests we count our blessings--from the refrain: "Count your blessings; name them one by one; count your many blessings and it will surprise you what the Lord has done." Take a few minutes to name the ones at the top of your head right now, starting with life. Many people have found that keeping a Gratitude Journal keeps them in touch with how God is at work in their lives, how they are being blessed day by day. Br.David Stendahl-Rast's book on Gratitude is an excellent resource.

Years ago I participated in an ecumenical prayer group in Washington, DC. One day the leader came in telling us about what had happened the preceding evening. He was on his way home from work; he lived out in the country in Maryland. He had picked up his family and was on a narrow country road when he had a blowout. He managed to get the car safely stopped on the edge of the road and got out to get the spare. When he opened the trunk, he saw there was no spare and remembered he had taken it to be repaired. This was in the days before cell phones so no calling AAA. They would have to wait for a Good Samaritan to show up. As he was trying to encourage his family, the verse "Give thanks in all circumstances" (I Thes.5:18) came to him. His family started singing praise songs, and before long help arrived. We all gave thanks for the good outcome, but as I reflected on his story, I wondered if I could ever trust so completely. That was over 30 years ago, and thank goodness, I have come to know and trust that Everything Belongs as Richard Rohr puts it. All of life is a gift of God. May we always give thanks.
