August 1, 2021

Proper 13, Year B

II Samuel 11:26-12:13a, Psalm 51:1-13 Ephesians 4:1-16, John 6:24-35

FORGIVENESS AND LOVE

Synchronicity, the coincidence of the coming together of dissimilar things, is how God often gets my attention. For example: in my quiet time this week, I came across something I'd never quite thought about in just that way before. It was a quote from Catherine of Siena, a 14th century mystic and Doctor of the Church, found in Love Poems from God: Twelve Sacred Voices from East and West (p.196), translated by Daniel Ladinsky. She says that, in response to a question in her heart, she heard Jesus say, "Forgiveness is the foundation of God's being." That caused me to pause. I've thought of love as the foundation of God's being, but this is a new perspective for me. What about you?

When I opened the lectionary to read the lessons for today and found the story of the prophet Nathan's parable and his announcing to David, "You are the man!" I realized the conjunction of the earlier quote with David's experience. Tradition teaches that our Psalm for today was David's prayer for forgiveness after his heart was convicted by the prophet. In verse 17b of the Psalm (several verses beyond our appointed reading), David states his trust in God's forgiveness: "a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise." That faith enables him to pour out his heart and his plea:

"Hide your face from my sins

and blot out my iniquities.

Create in me a clean heart, O God,

and renew a right spirit within me.

Cast me not away from your presence

and take not your holy Spirit from me.

Give me the joy of your saving help again

and sustain me with your bountiful spirit." (v.10-13)

David yearns for God's forgiveness to restore their relationship and has faith in their reconciliation.

Upon reflection. I have come to realize that forgiveness and love are intertwined deep within. We can't begin to forgive ourselves and others if we are not filled with divine Love, and we can't love others unconditionally as God does unless our hearts are overflowing with forgiveness.
