May 2, 2021.

The Fifth Sunday of Easter, Year B

Acts 8:26-40, Psalm 22:24-30, I John 4:7-21, John 15:1-8

GET UP AND GO

In our first lesson today, we hear God calling the apostle Philip to "Get up and go". Since Philip responded positively, we have the story of the Ethiopian eunuch's conversion and baptism. God often calls us to get up and go today, but we may not hear or recognize the call because the ears of our hearts are closed. Even if we have an inkling that we may be experiencing a call, we wonder and question and, in our uncertainty, may ignore it. Philip's experience may give us a pattern of how God works once we respond as Mary did, "Let it be with me according to your word."

Notice that nothing was explained to Philip in the beginning; it happened one step at a time. First he got up and went to a wilderness road, and then what? The Ethiopian eunuch appeared in his chariot on his way home from Jerusalem. Only then did Philip perceive he was to meet the man. When the man invited him to join him in his chariot, Philip takes the opportunity to meet the man's need for interpretation of scripture and then to share "the good news about Jesus", which led to the eunuch's desire for baptism. At that point Philip's mission was completed, and God redirected him to spread the gospel up the coast all the way to Caesarea.

If we want to be available for God's purpose we need to begin to recognize all the various ways the Holy One speaks in our lives. We have to metaphorically clean out the ears of our hearts. Then when we experience a nudge to action, no matter how small and inconsequential it may seem, we need to make the phone call, send the note, bake the brownies, ask the other to go for coffee or a walk, or whatever, and do it without delay. If an opportunity thereby opens up, it will be up to us to be present for the need at that time. The more we follow through on what we have recognized as a call from the Holy One, the more God will use us to incarnate Divine Love in the here and now.
