September 18, 2022
Proper 20, Year R C
Jeremiah 8:18---9:1, Psalm 79:1-9, I Timothy 2:1-7, Luke 16:1-13

SQUANDERING ?

In Jesus' parable in our gospel appointed for today, a rich man's manager is squandering his property. Likewise, we are called to be stewards of God's creation here and now, and it is clear we have been squandering what has been entrusted to our care. In the name of progress, we have run roughshod over our resources, giving little heed to the consequences. We have ignored the wisdom of the Native American tradition to prepare for seven future generations, assuming what we need will always be available. It is increasingly apparent that may not be a valid assumption. When we begin to pay attention to what is going on in the world around us, it appears time is running short.

For the past 50 years or so, a few people here and there have been acting as prophets crying in the wilderness, trying to get our attention. A variety of movements have sprung up encouraging us to put our concerns into action, to make a difference before it's too late to change the likely outcomes resulting from our greed and inattention. We may hear the clarion call, but what can one person do?

First of all, we can give thanks for the recent Climate Change Initiative established in our country. Then we can, each and all, offer ourselves, our bodies, our minds, our spirits, our energy, our resources to the Beloved to bring the kingdom of God to fruition here and now. We are the only hands and feet and voices God can use to incarnate divine Love in the world today. It is our responsibility to care for our bodies, minds, and spirits to ensure that we are ready and available to be purposed by the Holy One as needs be. It behooves us to eat appropriately, to exercise regularly, to keep our brains alert and focused on what is "true . . ., honorable . . ., just . . ., pure" (see Phil.4:8), and attending to our relationships with the Beloved and our neighbors near and far, or we can squander ourselves just as we have our natural resources in the past. It is our choice every day.
