August 6, 2023
The Transfiguration of Our Lord Jesus Christ
Exodus 34:29-35, Psalm 99, II Peter:1:13-21, Luke 9:28-36

THE HOLY MOUNT

Our collect for today refers to God using a holy mountain as a place for revelation. The lessons provide examples of that with Moses coming down from the mountain with his revelation for the Israelites, with the psalmist calling us to worship on God's "holy hill," with Peter's testimony of being with Jesus "on the holy mountain," and with the revelation of the transfigured Jesus to Peter, James, and John on the mountain in our gospel. The place where we encounter the Divine is a holy mountain whether we are having a "mountain top experience" or are in the depths of despair, or going about our daily business. It is sacred space because the Holy One has chosen just that spot to awaken us from our routine unawareness, to reveal Godself to us in a way that will open our hearts to Love.

The lessons also speak of "the cloud" as a manifestation of God's presence. In the Moses story, prior to our reading today, the cloud covered the mountain while Moses was there with God, and later after Moses completed the tabernacle, the cloud covered it with God's presence. Our psalmist reports that "[God} spoke to them out of the pillar of cloud." That was the same experience that so awed Peter, James, and John, hearing from the cloud God speaking about Jesus: "This is my Son, my Chosen; listen to him." The cloud may obscure our rational vision as our ears are opened to hear the Word of God. An anonymous English monk in medieval times called that the Cloud of Unknowing" as he experienced the mystery of God present in his life.

Wherever, whenever, however our revelations may occur, we do well to follow the psalmist's advice to pause and pay attention, to respond in some meaningful way. Likely that won't involve building three dwellings, as Peter mentioned, but following through on any words we may hear is important. Worship as the psalmist suggested in whatever way feels right for us might be our response---praise, thanksgiving, sitting in silence letting the revelation soak into our hearts. If we are expectant and alert, we may find the "holy mount" or "the cloud" showing up in our lives more and more often.
