February 26, 2023

The First Sunday in Lent, Year A

Genesis 2:15-19, 3:1-7, Psalm 32, Romans 5:12-19, Matthew 4:1-11

ANGELS COME

Our gospel for today says that after Jesus’ temptations in the wilderness, “suddenly angels came and waited on him.” Do you remember hearing the story of the person praying for angels to come and help him, and God telling him that he was already surrounded by angels. The person responded, “But I need angels with skin on them.” Over the years, that has been my experience, “angels with skin on them” coming to my aid. Most often it was one person, maybe a friend, maybe not, reaching out to me in whatever wilderness I was in, whom I realized was a messenger from the Holy One, sent as a Presence of Love.

Recently, I have been overwhelmed by all those who have shown up with kindness, gentleness and peace as the wilderness of approaching death came close. The staff and doctor at Bertrand Health Center, along with angels from church and my local community sharing communion and prayers, upheld us and helped Bob, my husband of 62 years, make the transition from here to there on February 4, 2023. Even the woman at the crematorium was an angel for me as she made the material details of saying goodbye as easy as could be. Our children showed up as loving angels with skin on them and myriad ways: Being there, writing the obituary, readying the house for company, the paperwork of death, handling everything so I could try to get used to being a widow.

Precious spouses, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces from Virginia and Texas brought their skin to hug and fill in where needed--all angels in my heart. Grandchildren and Bob’s sister, who were unable to attend, sent lovely floral offerings to brighten up the house indicating their attention and love so even if I didn't see their skin, I felt their presence.

Angels abounded at the Celebration of Bob's Life at our church: Our priest and deacon, the acolytes, the lectors, the musicians, the choristers, the electronic guru who streamed the service and made accessible a video of Bob’s life, and the Hospitality Committee that hosted a lovely reception for the congregation. That congregation included five carloads of angels from Apalachicola, where we lived for over 25 years, folks who braved a driving rainstorm to bring their skin to help me through this wilderness. And then came the cards from near and far with expressions of support from even more angels. The onslaught continues with my neighbors on my doorstep. Thanks be to God!

Once our eyes are open to recognize God's compassion and mercy at work in our lives and the world around us, we can see angels everywhere, incarnating Divine Love here and now. Take some time to discover where angels with skin on them have appeared in your life.
