July 2, 2023
Proper 8, Year R A

Genesis 22:1-14, Psalm 13, Romans 6:12-23, Matthew 10:40-42

A CUP OF COLD WATER

A cup of cold water doesn’t sound like much, but those of us who live in Florida know how refreshing, sometimes even life-giving, that can be when we are working outside on a hot summer day—especially when delivered with love. I think that is the gospel message Mother Teresa had in mind when she said, “We cannot all do great things, but we can do small things with great love.” Intention is what is important! It’s what Jesus was trying to get across to Martha (Lk.10:38-42), “Martha, Martha, you are worried and distracted by many things; there I need of only one thing.” And that one thing is love.

I thought this meditation was going to be about small things, but when I thought of the Mother Teresa quote above, I knew I probably didn’t remember it correctly, so I went to the Internet to find it. Not only did I find that quote, I was surprised to find how much she had to say about love and felt inspired to share some of them which relate to the hospitality theme in today’s gospel: “Love begins at home, and it is not how much we do . . . but how much love we put in that action.” “Let us always meet each other with a smile, for the smile is the beginning of love.” “We have been created for a purpose . . . to love and be loved.” “Intense love does not measure, it just gives.” “If you judge people, you have no time to love them.” “Love is a fruit in season at all times, and within the reach of every hand.” “I am a little pencil in the hand of a writing God who is sending a love letter to the world.” What a lovely metaphor for incarnation the last quote is! It’s what we mean when we say we are called to be God’s hands and feet and voice in the world today.

St. Benedict in his monastic rule calls those in his order to greet each and all as if they were welcoming Christ. Similarly Mother Teresa says, “Each of them [whoever “them” is for us] is Jesus in disguise.” So may we be ready with a smile, a cup of cold water, and, most of all, love for all whose lives we touch.
