January 22, 2023

Third Sunday after the Epiphany, Year A

Isaiah 9:1-4, Psalm 27:1, 5-13, I Corinthians 1:10-18, Matthew 4:12-23

THE MESSAGE OF THE CROSS

Paul speaks about the message of the cross in our epistle reading. What is the message of the cross for you today? How does it speak to you? What does it symbolize for you? Does it make any difference in your life here and now? Think about it!

Here’s one way you might try to discern the personal message the cross has for you at this time in your life. Take a cross, and sit with it for a while. (If you don’t have one readily available, just pick up 2 pencils or 2 sticks from outside and put them together or draw one on a piece of paper—the quality or style of the cross is not important for this exercise. What matters is the intent of your heart to hear the message of the cross that God has for you today.) Sit up straight with your feet flat on the floor, and breathe slowly, deeply, and let any distractions drop away as you focus your attention on the cross before you. Trust God to be present in the process. Be at peace. Wait expectantly for and accept the gift it has for you.

For those who are ready and willing to spend time meditating on and listening for their message from the cross, some may find it, as Paul suggests, symbolizing the power of God to overcome evil in the world. Others may find it speaking of the love of God reconciling all creation into Godself. Perhaps some will see the light of Christ shining on the path opening before them or the healing power of God’s grace bringing health and wholeness from deep within. Others may hear the call to take up the cross and follow Christ Jesus as Peter and Andrew, James and John in our gospel for today. Your personal message today will likely be very different from these suggestions because God speaks to us in the situations and circumstances of our particular lives.

Some folks won’t bother meditating on the cross. Each will have his/her own excuse for avoidance. For example, some may think they are too busy or have more important things to deal with. For others, meditation of this type is too foreign, too unusual, even to try. For still others, as Paul suggests, the cross is “foolishness,” irrelevant to their lives today so there’s no point in the exercise. No matter—God deals with us, each and all, in our own uniqueness, steadfastly continuing to reach out to us in new and different ways to get our attention until the ears of our hearts are opened to hear the message with our name on it.

What is your response to the message of the cross?
