October 22, 2023

Proper 24, Year A

Exodus 33:12-23, Psalm 99, I Thessalonians 1:1-10, Matthew 22:15-22

PERSEVERE WITH STEADFAST FAITH

Pause and pray the Collect for today (BCP, p.235)

Consider for a moment how inclusive the language is: “all nations”—not just some or a few, but all nations around the globe. God is continually revealing the divine Self to each and all as we are able to receive that holy Presence. As Christians, we recognize God through Christ Jesus and the Holy Spirit. Others recognize our “Almighty and everlasting God” as revealed in other manifestations in other global religions.

Then think about the phrase from the collect, the “works of [God’s] mercy.” There are several Hebrew words translated in our scriptures as mercy; for example: : “hesed refers to loving kindness, . . . rechamim has to do with tender compassion, . . . chaninah, a joyful, generous mercy, loving and kind.” (M. L’Engle, The Irrational Season, p.77) Recall your experiences of God’s loving kindness, tender compassion, and joyful, generous love, and realize that mercy is available for each and all around the globe.

Reflect a bit on the names you have for God, what you call God when you pray. Traditionally, we use Father, Son/Jesus, and Holy Spirit, but in the intimacy of our prayer time what love word rolls off your tongue? Nan Merrill in her Psalms for Praying has dozens: Beloved, Love, Gracious One, Heart of my heart, Divine Presence, Holy One, Compassionate One, and on and on. Muslims use 100 names for Allah/God in their prayers, Hindus far more. We all testify to the God we experience in our lives regardless of the name we use, and God responds.

God’s people around the world are in a time of transition. Phyllis Tickle, author of The Emerging Church, says that has happened every 500 years or so throughout recorded history. The old no longer satisfies; what’s ahead is not clear. The stance to which we are called during this unsettled time comes from our collect: to “persevere with steadfast faith” and trust God to see us through yet again.
