August 27, 2023

Proper 16, Year A

Exodus 1:8—2:10, Psalm 124, Romans 12:1-8, Matthew 16:13-20

SPIRITUAL WORSHIP

Take a few moments to read the first sentence from our Epistle for today--slowly, maybe aloud or mouthing the words. Notice the last two words of the passage, “spiritual worship”. Pause and consider what they may have to say to you today. Sit with the phrase for a while; let it soak into your heart as an invitation from God.

We are familiar with liturgical worship. We participate in a church worship service led by clergy who, by taking, blessing, breaking the elements from creation, provide us with the Body and Blood of Christ Jesus. Spiritual worship, however, is not so formal; no clergy is required. It can take place anywhere, anytime; perhaps on a walk or sitting on a bench in a park, maybe beside a stream or in a desert landscape, at the beach or on your porch or patio, in your prayer chair or in your identified prayer room, or maybe even in your bed. It may include some formal prayers or spontaneous prayers. It could include making music, dancing, or singing as one is moved by the Spirit. It might be completely in silence or in the midst of a busy day. 17th century French friar Brother Lawrence might call it “practicing the presence of God”. It is an opportunity to offer yourself, body, mind, spirit, to God as you feel led. There are no rules, no rubrics to follow. There are no limitations to what your expressions of reverence and love may be. Spiritual worship is how you can deepen your intimate relationship with the Holy One, how you may bless, praise, worship and adore the Beloved who is closer than your breath, the One who holds all creation together in one interconnected whole.

How does your spiritual worship manifest itself in your life? My daily practice of making time for conversation and rest with the Beloved, practicing the Presence wherever I am, whatever I am doing is what I would call my spiritual worship today. It is my RSVP to God’s Invitation--like Mary's, “let it be with me according to your word”-- with a resounding YES. If you don't have any or little spiritual worship in your life right now, there's no time like the present to offer yourself as “a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God”.
