February 5, 2023

Fifth Sunday after the Epiphany, Year A

Isaiah 58:1-12, Psalm 112:1-9, I Corinthians 2:1-16, Matthew 5:13-20

ABUNDANT LIFE

Our collect speaks of “that abundant life . . . made known to us in your Son our Savior Jesus Christ.” Just what is that abundant life? Jesus gives us a clue when he says, “I came that they may have life and have it abundantly” (Jn.10:10b) in his description of his role as the good shepherd. As such, he calls his sheep by name; they recognize his voice and follow him as he leads them to pasture for feeding. He says, “I know my own and my own know me, just as the Father knows me and I know the Father.” (Jn.10:14b-15a) That speaks to me of relationship, the loving relationship of parent and child, the intimacy of the interrelationship of the Father and the Son in the unity of the Holy Spirit.

If that sounds inviting, if we choose to know God intimately, to follow the Good Shepherd wherever he leads us, to accept the abundant life God has prepared for us, we may expect to experience life as the prophet Isaiah describes in our lesson from the Hebrew scriptures (with my annotations): “Then your light shall break forth like the dawn (from out of our deepest darkness) and your healing shall spring up quickly (just like for the woman who touched the hem of Jesus’ robe); your vindicator shall go before you (making the rough places smooth), and the glory of the Lord shall be your rear guard (picking up the pieces from the messes we’ve made). Then you shall call, and the Lord will answer (thank goodness for our prayer-answering God); you shall cry for help and he will say ‘Here I am’ (Emmanuel, God with us). . . the Lord will guide you continually (lighting up the path before us), and satisfy your needs in parched places (in all the dry, desert places in our lives wherever they may be), and make your bones strong (so that we are able to carry our crosses), you shall be like a watered garden (rich and fruitful), like a spring of water, whose waters never fail (living water offered for others).”

That’s the kind of abundant life the Good Shepherd wants for us. If that description intrigues us, if it calls us to desire the pasture the Good Shepherd has prepared for us, all it takes is for us to open our hands to God, surrendering our will to God, and committing ourselves to walk in God’s holy way, trusting God to make us whole and holy, and bring us into abundant life. God is faithful. The abundant life awaits our willingness to take the first step.
