March 31, 2024

The Sunday of the Passion: Palm Sunday, Year B

Liturgy of the Palms

Mark 11:1-11, Psalm 118:1-2, 19-29

Liturgy of the Word

Isaiah 50:4-9a, Psalm 31:9-16, Philippians 2:5-11, Mark 14:1--15:47

PREPARATION

At Good Friday services, Christians often sing the African-American spiritual, "Were You There?" (Hymnal 1982, p.172). It is a powerful way to open our hearts to the reality of the gospel, to shake us loose from the torpor of daily living. Sitting in the service, I am always moved to my core, drawn into the awe-full scene of the crucifixion.

Ignatius of Loyola (1491-1556) provided his Jesuit monks with a method of prayer and meditation on the scripture with that same goal in mind, a way to make the scripture real to us, to come alive in the here and now. Starting with a story from scripture, we picture the scene described and, in our imagination, put ourselves right there in the scene. We use our senses to deepen our presence in the story; what do we see, what do we hear, what do we taste, what do we feel: hot/cold, wet/dry, dark/light, windy/calm, for example. Which character are you? Let the scene come alive with your participation; see where it takes you.

While Mark's entire passion gospel is too long for one such meditation, there are many powerful images which could prove to be fruitful jumping off places. For example: the alabaster jar, the upper room “furnished and ready”, the last supper, the expectation of betrayal and desertion, the Gethsemane prayer vigil, the sleeping disciples, the kiss of betrayal, the trial before the high priest, Peter’s denial, the trial before Pilate, the mocking of the Roman soldiers, the crown of thorns, the cross, casting lots for Jesus’ clothing, the taunting of the passers by, the darkness over the whole land, the tearing of the temple curtain, the women followers, Joseph of Arimathea’s burial of Jesus, the linen cloth, the tomb, the stone rolled across the door, the women’s notice of the location of the tomb. Reflecting on any one of those images could be beneficial for hearing what God has prepared for you on your pilgrimage to Easter. The way of Christ is the way of the cross. We don't get to Easter without going through Good Friday. Are you ready?
